SQL docs review (#389)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/sql/pages/working-with-json.adoc

= Working with JSON Data in SQL
:description: In Hazelcast, the SQL service supports ways of working with JSON data: `json-flat`, which does not allow you to query nested keys/values and `json`, which supports nested queries and JSON functions.

JSON is a semi-structured data type used for holding JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) data. In Hazelcast, the SQL service supports the following ways of working with JSON data:

> - `json`: Maps JSON data to a single column of `JSON` type where you can use <<jsonpath, JsonPath>> syntax to query and filter it, including nested levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `json`: Maps JSON data to a single column of `json` type where you can use <<jsonpath, JsonPath>> syntax to query and filter it, including nested levels.
```

- `json-flat`: Maps JSON top-level fields to columns with non-JSON types where you can query only top-level keys.

> == JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== `json`
```

The `JSON` data type comes with full support for querying JSON in maps and Kafka topics.

NOTE: The JSON data type is currently not supported for xref:mapping-to-a-file-system.adoc[file mappings]. Files support the <<json-flat, `JSON-FLAT` data type>>.

> === Mapping to the `JSON` Type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Mapping to the `json` Type
```

- xref:functions-and-operators.adoc#json-functions[JSON_QUERY]
- xref:functions-and-operators.adoc#json-functions[JSON_VALUE]

> `JSON_QUERY` returns a JSON value, while `JSON_VALUE` returns non-JSON value, a `VARCHAR` by default. If you use the functions to extract a string field, `JSON_VALUE` will return the value directly, while `JSON_QUERY` will return it in quotes and with special characters escaped, i.e. JSON-formatted. `JSON_VALUE` can't be used to extract arrays or objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `JSON_QUERY` function returns a JSON value, whereas the `JSON_VALUE` function returns a non-JSON value, which is a `VARCHAR` by default. If you use these functions to extract a string field, `JSON_VALUE` will return the value directly, while `JSON_QUERY` will return it as JSON, in single quotes, and with special characters escaped. `JSON_VALUE` can't be used to extract arrays or objects.
```

   FROM countries;
----
|

> Returns all fields of `countries` in an array. `countries` property must be in the root object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns all fields of the `countries` property in an array. The `countries` property must be in the root object.
```

> Returns all fields of `countries` in an array. `countries` property must be in the root object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns all fields of the `countries` property in an array. The `countries` property must be in the root object.
```

   FROM countries;
----
|

> From `countries` property in the root document, find `city` property anywhere under it. Return as array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the `countries` property in the root document, find the `city` property anywhere under it. Return as an array.
```

   FROM countries;
----
|

> Return the 3rd element of `countries` array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Return the third element of the `countries` array.
```

[source,sql]
----
SELECT
   JSON_QUERY(this, '$.countries[0,2]' WITH WRAPPER)
   FROM countries;
----
|

> Returns 1st and 3rd elements of `countries` array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the first and third elements of the `countries` array.
```

[source,json]
----
[{"country":"United Kingdom","cities":[{"city":"London"}]},{"country":"Turkey","cities":[{"city":"Istanbul"}]}]]
----
|
[source,sql]
----
SELECT
   JSON_QUERY(this, '$.countries[0 to 2]' WITH WRAPPER)
   FROM countries;
----
|

> Returns 1st to 3rd elements of `countries` array (range end is inclusive).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns elements one through three of the `countries` array, including the third element.
```

[source,json]
----
[{"country":"United Kingdom","cities":[{"city":"London"}]},{"country":"France","cities":[{"city":"Lyon"}]},{"country":"Turkey","cities":[{"city":"Istanbul"}]}]
----

|

> ### this one doesn't work ###

Reviewer: Should we remove this one?

[source,sql]
----
SELECT
   JSON_QUERY(this, '$.countries[*]?(@..city=="London"')
   FROM countries;
----
|

> From `countries` array returns those elements, which have `city` property at any depth equal to `London`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the `countries` array returns elements that have a `city` property at any depth equal to `London`.
```

|$
|Root

|*
|Wildcard

|.<name>
|Child property

|..
|Child property at any level deeper

|['<name>' (, '<name>')]
|List of child properties

|[<number> (, <number>)]
|List of array indexes

|[<number> *to* <number>]
|Array range

|?(<expression>)
|Filter expression

|@
|Current node in filter expression
|===

> == JSON-FLAT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== `json-flat`
```

The `json-flat` format comes with partial support for querying JSON in maps, Kafka topics, and files.

> === Mapping to the `JSON-FLAT` Type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Mapping to the `json-flat` Type
```

> === Mapping to the `JSON-FLAT` Type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Mapping to the `json-flat` Type
```
